# CS-465-Full-Stack
CS-465 Full Stack Development with MEAN
## Architecture
### Compare and contrast the types of frontend development you used in your full stack project, including Express HTML, JavaScript, and the single-page application (SPA).
There are two different frontends for my full stack project, one frontend that uses Angular for the admin-only single-page application (SPA), and another frontend that uses Express + HTML for the customer-facing website. The customer-facing website is written in JavaScript and HTML using the Model-View-Controller (MVC) pattern of Express, while the admin-only SPA application is written in mostly TypeScript with some HTML using a component-based application structure.
### Why did the backend use a NoSQL MongoDB database?
MongoDB was used for not only its greatly improved speed over traditional databases such as MySQL, but also to complete the JavaScript full-stack application. Using the node module Mongoose, interaction between the application and the database were seamless.
## Functionality
### How is JSON different from Javascript and how does JSON tie together the frontend and backend development pieces?
JSON (JavaScript Object Notation) is a language-agnostic data-interchange format used to store data. JSON has JavaScript in its name since it is based on a subset of the JavaScript Programming Language Standard ECMA-262 3rd Edition from December 1999. JavaScript is of course a programming language, while JSON is used to store and exchange data. JSON is a user friendly and easy to read way to exchange data with the frontend, backend, and database. For example: on the frontend, the administrator fills out the "add trip" form and submits the new trip to be added to the list of trips. The form data is stored in JSON format and passed along to the sever (backend) which saves the new trip to the database. A response is then sent back to the frontend in JSON format to notify the application if the POST request was successful or if any errors were encountered along the way. The beauty of JSON is that the developer can then look at the response and easily read and understand it for development/debugging purposes.
### Provide instances in the full stack process when you refactored code to improve functionality and efficiencies, and name the benefits that come from reusable user interface (UI) components.
On the customer-facing website, elements from the HTML documents such as the header and footer were moved into seperate "handlebars" documents. This way, the header and footer sections can be inserted into every webpage using a single line of code. This keeps things DRY (Don't Repeat Yourself) so the same identical HTML sections aren't repeated on every page. This also has the major benefit of making a single change to the single header or footer document to make the change to all pages that use the header and/or footer, saving valuable time and reducing the chance of making mistakes such as forgetting to make the change to a page or two.
## Testing
### Methods for request and retrieval necessitate various types of API testing of endpoints, in addition to the difficulties of testing with added layers of security. Explain your understanding of methods, endpoints, and security in a full stack application.
Methods in a full-stack application are the functional sections of code used to request and retrieve data. These methods are accessed using the API endpoints to make HTTP requests such as GET, POST, PUT, and DELETE. The HTTP requests are used to get data, save data, update data, and delete data from the database. One such API endpoint would be "http://localhost:3000/api/trips" which can accept a GET request to get a list of trips, a POST request to add a new trip, and etc. Some methods (such as adding, editing, and deleting trips) require security features such as authorization to ensure only authorized users can use those methods to update trip information or make changes to the database.
## Reflection
### How has this course helped you in reaching your professional goals? What skills have you learned, developed, or mastered in this course to help you become a more marketable candidate in your career field?
This course has helped me in reaching my professional goals by furthering my knowledge and skillset of both web development and programming in general. I have used JavaScript very little in the past, but taking this course has given me a greater understanding of the language to the point where I feel comfortable using it. Since JavaScript is currently the single most popular programming language, this course has helped me become a more marketable candidate in the computer science field.
